Heinrich Dichmann and his brother August were in Saxon housing.
The essays tried a new pressure tactic on the witnesses.
Soon after the war broke out on September 1st,
Wija Hova's witnesses had to assemble at the entrance.
August Dichmann had refused to perform military service.
And Baranowski, the commander whose nickname was Four Square,
asked Himmler to confirm the death sentence.
That came through, and the prisoners built a huge wall for the bullets.
The whole camp was assembled.
I just want to mention that the commander delivered a talk before the shooting.
His microphone was standing about there.
I can clearly remember one sentence.
When he said, the prisoner August Dichmann does not regard himself
a citizen of the German Reich, but rather a citizen of the Kingdom of God.
Suddenly, a member of the SS came from between the barracks,
with August Dichmann, and led him to the war.
August was standing at the front, and we 300, about 300 brothers,
with standing at the most eight or ten paces away from him.
He had to stand with his face to the wall,
and there were seven members of the SS.
An officer with the rank of Stumbann Führer,
that is with four stars, gave the order to shoot.
When the shots were fired, he fell straight to the ground,
and the SS officer drew his pistol and gave him the coup de gras.
As was the custom.